Adds doc for Resource Sharing and Access Control feature (#11571)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _security/access-control/resource-sharing-api.md

---
layout: default
title: Resource sharing APIs
parent: Resource sharing and access control
grand_parent: Access control
nav_order: 10
---

# Resource sharing APIs
**Introduced 3.3**
{: .label .label-purple }

This is an experimental feature and is not recommended for use in a production environment. For updates on the progress of the feature or if you want to leave feedback, join the discussion on the [OpenSearch forum](https://forum.opensearch.org/).
{: .warning}

The Resource Sharing APIs provide programmatic access to manage fine-grained, document-level access control for plugin-defined resources. These APIs allow you to share resources, manage access permissions, and automate resource sharing workflows.

You can manage resource sharing directly using these REST APIs. Operations can only be performed if you are the owner, a superadmin, or have sharing access to the resource.

## Migrate legacy sharing metadata

> Imports legacy plugin-managed sharing metadata. This API is intended for administrators to run once during system migration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Imports legacy plugin-managed sharing metadata. This API is intended to be run once by an administrator during system migration.
```

### Endpoint

```json
GET _plugins/_security/api/resource/types
```

### Example request

```json
GET _plugins/_security/api/resource/types
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

### Example response

```json
{
  "types": [
    {
      "type": "ml-model-group",
      "action_groups": ["ml_read_only", "ml_read_write", "ml_full_access"]
    },
    {
      "type": "anomaly-detector",
      "action_groups": ["ad_read_only", "ad_full_access"]
    }
  ]
}
```

### Response body fields

The following table lists all response body fields.

| Field | Data type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
| `types` | Array | A list of resource types available in the system. |
| `types[].type` | String | The name of the resource type. |
| `types[].action_groups` | Array | A list of available action groups (access levels) for this resource type. |

### Required permissions

This API requires authenticated access but does not require specific cluster permissions.

## Related documentation

- [Resource sharing and access control]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security/access-control/resources/) - Backend concepts, configuration, and setup

> - [Resource access management]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/dashboards/management/resource-sharing/) - UI workflows and user guidance

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Resource access management]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/dashboards/management/resource-sharing/) -- UI workflows and user guidance
```
